Add a topic on jupyter-lmod in documentation (#640)
TACC/Lmod: docs/source/370_jupyter_lmod.rst

Jupyter and Lmod
================

It is possible to use Lmod inside of Jupyter with the terminal or jupyter-lmod.

jupyter-lmod is a frontend and server extension for Jupyter (notebook and jupyterlab).
The extension graphically provides most of Lmod's functions:
    - Browser and filter available modules
    - Load and unload modules
    - Display a module content
    - Create and load collections

The extension is located in the 'Softwares' tab of the main interface in Jupyter Notebook,
while in JupyterLab, it can be accessed as a sidepanel by clicking on the Lmod logo icon
located in the sidebar.

Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~

To install jupyter-lmod extension: ::

    pip install jupyterlmod

This enables the extension for both Jupyter Notebook and JupyterLab.

How does it work?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> jupyter-lmod uses lmod python interface to generate Python code
> that modifies the environment variables of the Python process running Jupyter. All child
> processes of Jupyter (including kernels) created after Lmod calls inherit
> the environment variables as defined by the set of loaded modules.

Reviewer: This sentence is a bit confusing, I suggest to simplify it:
```suggestion
jupyter-lmod uses lmod python interface to generate Python code
that modifies the environment variables of the Python process running Jupyter. All child
processes of Jupyter (*e.g.* newly spawned kernels)  will inherit the environment
as currently defined by the set of loaded modules.
```

In concrete terms, kernels in use by active notebooks will not be aware of changes
made to the environment (e.g. **$PATH**, **$PYTHONPATH**, **$LD_LIBRARY_PATH**) by modules
loaded after they were spawned. Depending on the Jupyter version, a manual kernel restart
or a complete kernel shutdown/start cycle is needed to make an active notebook aware of changes
to the environment variables.

Lmod environment variable configuration for jupyter-lmod
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The plugin requires the environment variable **$LMOD_CMD** to be defined when Jupyter starts,
plus all environment variables required by Lmod to work properly (i.e.: **$MODULEPATH**).

Some JupyterHub spawners do not setup the complete user's environment, leaving **$LMOD_CMD**
and **$MODULEPATH** undefined. To address this issue, the environment variables have to be
defined in **jupyterhub_config.py** using
`c.Spawner.environment <https://jupyterhub.readthedocs.io/en/stable/api/spawner.html#jupyterhub.spawner.Spawner.environment>`_.

> If the environment variables are defined before JupyterHub launch, you can add their
> names only to `c.Spawner.env_keep <https://jupyterhub.readthedocs.io/en/stable/api/spawner.html#jupyterhub.spawner.Spawner.env_keep>`_
> instead.

Reviewer: Technically these variable are only needed in the single-user server. JupyterHub itself does not need them.
```suggestion
If the environment variables are already defined before JupyterHub is launched
or before the single-user server starts (Jupyter Notebook or JupyterLab),
you can propagate these variable by adding their names to
`c.Spawner.env_keep <https://jupyterhub.readthedocs.io/en/stable/api/spawner.html#jupyterhub.spawner.Spawner.env_keep>`_ instead.
```

Jupyter and Lmod
================

It is possible to use Lmod inside of Jupyter with the terminal or jupyter-lmod.

jupyter-lmod is a frontend and server extension for Jupyter (notebook and jupyterlab).
The extension provides most of Lmod functionalities graphically:
    - Browser and filter available modules
    - Load and unload modules
    - Display a module content
    - Create and load collections

Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~

To install jupyter-lmod extension: ::

    pip install jupyterlmod

This enables the extension for both Jupyter Notebook and JupyterLab.

How does it work?
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

jupyter-lmod uses lmod python interface to generate Python code
that modifies the environment variables of the Python process running Jupyter. All child
processes of Jupyter (including kernels) created after Lmod calls inherit

> the environment variables as defined by the set of loaded modules.

Author: I could add this clarification:
> In concrete terms, if a module modifies **$PYTHONPATH** and it is loaded after a Python kernel was spawned, the kernel will not be aware of the change.

> the environment variables as defined by the set of loaded modules.

Reviewer: It's not just `PYTHONPATH` but the full environment. So for instance, executing shell commands from a notebook will fail for those executables added to `PATH` after the kernel spawned.

SO I would say something along the lines:

> In concrete terms, kernels already on use in active notebooks will not be aware of any changes to the environment (_e.g._ $PATH, $PYTHONPATH, $LD_LIBRARY_PATH) from modules loaded after they were spawned.
Depending on the Jupyter version in use, a kernel restart or a full kernel shutdown/start cycle is needed to make an open notebook aware of changes to the environment.

> the environment variables as defined by the set of loaded modules.

Author: I have updated the section with the proposed paragraph.

Jupyter and Lmod
================

It is possible to use Lmod inside of Jupyter with the terminal or jupyter-lmod.

jupyter-lmod is a frontend and server extension for Jupyter (notebook and jupyterlab).
The extension provides most of Lmod functionalities graphically:
    - Browser and filter available modules
    - Load and unload modules
    - Display a module content
    - Create and load collections

Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~

To install jupyter-lmod extension: ::

>     pip install jupyterlmod

Author: This is not exactly true as we speak, but it is possible. I just need to fix jupyter-lmod setup.py to install the jupyterlab extension. I'll fix it before changing this PR from draft to mergeable.

Author: Fixed with the release of jupyter-lmod 4.0.0.
